Created Messaging Center doc (#296)
flodolo/documentation: src/tools/pontoon/messaging_center.md

# Sending emails and notifications in Pontoon

Pontoon allows you to send emails and in-app notifications to contributors, with advanced filtering options.

## Access the Messaging Center

> To send emails or notifications, go to the Messaging Center on Pontoon by selecting the [Messaging](https://pontoon.mozilla.org/messaging/) tab, which is accessible from the main Pontoon UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send emails or notifications, go to the Messaging Center on Pontoon by selecting the [Messaging](https://pontoon.mozilla.org/messaging/) tab, which is accessible from the main Pontoon UI when logged in with an account with staff permissions.
```

> Once in the Messaging Center, you will be able to choose your message type at the top of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Message type

Once in the Messaging Center, you will be able to choose your message type at the top of the page. You can choose to send as a `Notification`, an `Email`, or both (by selecting both types).

By default, emails will only be sent to users who have opted into `News and updates` in their settings. However, if the message is considered transactional (e.g. an email about a password reset) then the `Transactional` option can be selected and emails will also be sent to users who have not opted in to email communication.

Note: Messages marked as Notification are not currently included in Email digests.

```

> ### Enter message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Message Content
```

> Next, enter your message using the Subject and Body fields. Links will be rendered as clickable when the message will be sent out, but to embed a link within a word, HTML is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, enter your message using the Subject and Body fields. Links will be rendered as clickable when the message is sent. Markdown is supported for advanced formatting, such as embedding a link within a word.
```

## Choose recipients

You can send messages to a wide range of targeted groups by applying precise filters.

### Filter options

* By user role\
Select whether you’d like to send your message to Managers, Translators, Contributors, or all of them.

* By locale\
All locales are included by default and are listed under the “Chosen” column to the right. You can choose to remove a subset of locales by clicking on them one by one, so they get moved to the “Available” column to the left. You can also use the “MOVE ALL” options to move all locales from one column to the other.

* By project\

> As for locales, all projects are included by default and are listed under the “Chosen” column to the right. You can choose to remove a subset of products by clicking on them one by one, so they get moved to the “Available” column to the left. You can also use the “MOVE ALL” options to move all projects from one column to the other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All projects are included by default and are listed under the “Chosen” column to the right. You can choose to remove a subset of projects by clicking on them one by one, so they get moved to the “Available” column to the left. You can also use the “MOVE ALL” options to move all projects from one column to the other.
```

* By submitted translations\

> Set minimum and maximum thresholds for submitted translations, and/or select a date range for submitted translations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filters users by the number of translations they have submitted, or when they submitted a translation.

You can set a minimum threshold, maximum threshold, start of date range, and/or end of date range for submitted translations. Fields can be left empty (e.g. setting the minimum threshold to 5 and leaving maximum blank will set the filter to those with 5 or more translations).
```

* By performed reviews\

> Target users based on the number of reviews they have conducted, using thresholds and/or date ranges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filter users based on the number of reviews they have conducted, or when they conducted a review.

You can set a minimum threshold, maximum threshold, start of date range, and/or end of date range for reviews conducted. Fields can be left empty (e.g. setting the minimum threshold to 5 and leaving maximum blank will set the filter to those with 5 or more reviews).

```

* By last login\

> Filter contributors based on their last login activity within a specific date range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filter contributors based on their last login activity.

You can set the start of date range and/or end of date range. Fields can be left empty (e.g. setting just the `From` field will search for users who have logged in on the specified day or later.)
```

> ### Review and send message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reviewing and sending messages
```

> Then, click on “REVIEW MESSAGE” at the bottom of the page to review your message content, recipients, and associated projects. You’ll also see a confirmation of the message type you’ve selected. You will have the option to either return to editing, send the message to yourself, or send it to the recipients. A confirmation message will appear at the top of the page once the message has been sent out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click “REVIEW MESSAGE” at the bottom of the page to review your message content, recipients, and associated projects. You’ll also see a confirmation of the message type you’ve selected. You will have the option to either return to editing, send the message to yourself (to view the rendered message), or send to recipients.

The send to recipients button will display the number of users who will receive the message. Review all the content in this section and the number of recipients. If everything looks okay, then you can complete sending the message by clicking `SEND TO * RECIPIENTS`.
 
A confirmation message will appear at the top of the page once the message has been sent out.
```

# Sending emails and notifications in Pontoon

Pontoon allows you to send emails and in-app notifications to contributors, with advanced filtering options.

> ## Access the Messaging Center

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Accessing the Messaging Center
```

> 
> ## Access the Messaging Center
> 

Reviewer 2: Not sure we need a title here:

```suggestion

```

> To send emails or notifications, go to the Messaging Center on Pontoon by selecting the [Messaging](https://pontoon.mozilla.org/messaging/) tab, which is accessible from the main Pontoon UI when logged in with an account with staff permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To access the Messaging Center, clicking [Messaging](https://pontoon.mozilla.org/messaging/) in the page header when logged in as Administrator.
```

## Message type

> Once in the Messaging Center, you will be able to choose your message type at the top of the page. You can choose to send as a `Notification`, an `Email`, or both (by selecting both types).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once in the Messaging Center, you will be able to choose your message type at the top of the page. You can choose to send it as a `Notification`, an `Email`, or both (by selecting both types).
```

> By default, emails will only be sent to users who have opted into `News and updates` in their settings. However, if the message is considered transactional (e.g. an email about a password reset) then the `Transactional` option can be selected and emails will also be sent to users who have not opted in to email communication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, emails will only be sent to users who have opted in to `News and updates` in their settings. However, if the message is considered transactional (e.g. an email about a password reset) then the `Transactional` option can be selected and emails will also be sent to users who have not opted in to email communication.
```

> Note: Messages marked as Notification are not currently included in Email digests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: Notifications sent via Messaging Center are not included in Notification email digests.
```

> ## Message Content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Message content
```

> Next, enter your message using the Subject and Body fields. Links will be rendered as clickable when the message is sent. Markdown is supported for advanced formatting, such as embedding a link within a word.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, enter your message using the Subject and Body fields. Links will be rendered as clickable when the message is sent. Markdown is supported for advanced formatting, such as creating links.
```

> ## Choose recipients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Choosing recipients
```

You can send messages to a wide range of targeted groups by applying precise filters.

> ### Filter options
> 
> * By user role\

Reviewer 2: I would make filter titles stand out a little more and consistent with the UI:

```suggestion
### Filter by user role
```

Select whether you’d like to send your message to Managers, Translators, Contributors, or all of them.

> * By locale\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Filter by locale
```

All locales are included by default and are listed under the “Chosen” column to the right. You can choose to remove a subset of locales by clicking on them one by one, so they get moved to the “Available” column to the left. You can also use the “MOVE ALL” options to move all locales from one column to the other.

> * By project\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Filter by project
```

All projects are included by default and are listed under the “Chosen” column to the right. You can choose to remove a subset of projects by clicking on them one by one, so they get moved to the “Available” column to the left. You can also use the “MOVE ALL” options to move all projects from one column to the other.

> * By submitted translations\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Filter by submitted translations
```

Filters users by the number of translations they have submitted, or when they submitted a translation.

> You can set a minimum threshold, maximum threshold, start of date range, and/or end of date range for submitted translations. Fields can be left empty (e.g. setting the minimum threshold to 5 and leaving maximum blank will set the filter to those with 5 or more translations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filters users by the number of translations they have submitted, or when they submitted a translation.\
\
You can set a minimum threshold, maximum threshold, start of date range, and/or end of date range for submitted translations. Fields can be left empty (e.g. setting the minimum threshold to 5 and leaving maximum blank will set the filter to those with 5 or more translations).
```

> * By performed reviews\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Filter by performed reviews
```

Filter users based on the number of reviews they have conducted, or when they conducted a review.

> You can set a minimum threshold, maximum threshold, start of date range, and/or end of date range for reviews conducted. Fields can be left empty (e.g. setting the minimum threshold to 5 and leaving maximum blank will set the filter to those with 5 or more reviews).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filter users based on the number of reviews they have conducted, or when they conducted a review.\
\
You can set a minimum threshold, maximum threshold, start of date range, and/or end of date range for reviews conducted. Fields can be left empty (e.g. setting the minimum threshold to 5 and leaving maximum blank will set the filter to those with 5 or more reviews).
```

> * By last login\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Filter by last login
```

Filter contributors based on their last login activity.

> You can set the start of date range and/or end of date range. Fields can be left empty (e.g. setting just the `From` field will search for users who have logged in on the specified day or later.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filter contributors based on their last login activity.\
\
You can set the start of date range and/or end of date range. Fields can be left empty (e.g. setting just the `From` field will search for users who have logged in on the specified day or later.)
```

## Reviewing and sending messages

> Click “REVIEW MESSAGE” at the bottom of the page to review your message content, recipients, and associated projects. You’ll also see a confirmation of the message type you’ve selected. You will have the option to either return to editing, send the message to yourself (to view the rendered message), or send to recipients.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click “REVIEW MESSAGE” at the bottom of the page to review your message content, recipients, and selected message type. You will have the option to either return to editing, send the message to yourself (to view the actual rendered notification or email), or send to recipients.
```

> The send to recipients button will display the number of users who will receive the message. Review all the content in this section and the number of recipients. If everything looks okay, then you can complete sending the message by clicking `SEND TO * RECIPIENTS`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `SEND TO * RECIPIENTS` button will display the number of users who will receive the message. Review contents of the page carefully and if everything looks okay, complete sending the messages by clicking the button.
```

> A confirmation message will appear at the top of the page once the message has been sent out.

Reviewer 2: Removing "message" to avoid confusion:

```suggestion
A confirmation will appear at the top of the page once the messages have been sent out.
```

### Filter by submitted translations

Filters users by the number of translations they have submitted, or when they submitted a translation.\
\
You can set a minimum threshold, maximum threshold, start of date range, and/or end of date range for submitted translations. Fields can be left empty (e.g. setting the minimum threshold to 5 and leaving maximum blank will set the filter to those with 5 or more translations).

### Filter by performed reviews

Filter users based on the number of reviews they have conducted, or when they conducted a review.\
\
You can set a minimum threshold, maximum threshold, start of date range, and/or end of date range for reviews conducted. Fields can be left empty (e.g. setting the minimum threshold to 5 and leaving maximum blank will set the filter to those with 5 or more reviews).

### Filter by last login

Filter contributors based on their last login activity.\
\
You can set the start of date range and/or end of date range. Fields can be left empty (e.g. setting just the `From` field will search for users who have logged in on the specified day or later.)

## Reviewing and sending messages

> Click “REVIEW MESSAGE” at the bottom of the page to review your message content, recipients, and selected message type. You will have the option to either return to editing, send the message to yourself (to view the actual rendered notification or email), or send to recipients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click `REVIEW MESSAGE` at the bottom of the page to review your message content, recipients, and selected message type. You will have the option to either return to editing, send the message to yourself (to view the actual rendered notification or email), or send to recipients.
```
Changes are looking good. Found one more nit on re-review.
